docs: troubleshoot desktop errors from telemetry (#11282)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Support/troubleshooting.mdx

If you experience an error from the `webrtcvad` package, run `uv pip install webrtcvad-wheels` in your virtual environment, and then retry the Langflow installation.

## Langflow Desktop installation issues

> The following issues can occur when Langflow Desktop is setting up or installing Langflow OSS automatically during first-time setup or updates.

Author: Clarified that this occurs when Langflow Desktop installs or updates the bundles LFOSS version.

To view Langflow Desktop logs, see [Desktop logs](/logging#desktop-logs).

### Failed to install Langflow OSS: Unable to sanity check Langflow OSS version

> Desktop installed Langflow OSS but couldn't verify the installation. You may see the error message: `Langflow Installation Error: langflow-install-error` or other `Langflow Installation Error:` messages.

Reviewer: It's confusing that the heading has one message but a different one in the body.

To resolve this error, do the following:

1. Close Langflow Desktop.
2. Clear Langflow Desktop's Python virtual environment.
    Navigate to Langflow Desktop's data directory at `%LOCALAPPDATA%\com.LangflowDesktop` on Windows, or `~/Library/Application Support/com.LangflowDesktop` on macOS.
3. Delete the `venv` or `python_env` folder.
4. Restart Langflow Desktop.

> If the issue persists, ensure Python version >=3.10 is installed and accessible, or reinstall Langflow Desktop from [langflow.org/desktop](https://langflow.org/desktop).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the issue persists, ensure you have installed Python version 3.10 or later, and it is accessible by your Langflow installation. If the Python version is correct, try reinstalling Langflow Desktop from [langflow.org/desktop](https://langflow.org/desktop).
```

To resolve this error, do the following:

1. Check if another process is using Langflow Desktop's default port `7860`.
    * On Windows, run `netstat -ano | findstr :7860`.
    * On macOS or Linux, run `lsof -i :7860`.
2. If another process is using the port, stop that process or [configure Langflow Desktop to use a different port](/environment-variables#set-environment-variables-for-langflow-desktop).

### Failed to install uv: Unable to find uv executable

This error can also appear as: `Unable to find uv executable for Python virtual environment setup`. You may see the error messages: `UV Installation Error: UV installation failed - binary not found after installation` or `Python Environment Error: UV binary not found at:` followed by a file path.

Langflow Desktop can't locate the `uv` executable on your system, even though it may be installed.

To resolve this error, do the following:

1. Verify `uv` is installed by running `uv --version` in a terminal.

> 2. If `uv` is not found, install `uv` using the instructions in "[Windows] All automatic installation strategies failed" below, or see the [uv installation guide](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv#installation).

Reviewer: ```
2. If `uv` isn't found, install `uv` using the instructions in "[Windows] All automatic installation strategies failed" below, or see the [uv installation guide](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv#installation).
```

This step is a bit complicated for what seems like just two possible commands? A partial could be fine or just copy/paste because it's not a lot of content.

Reviewer: Also, why does step 2 only refer to Windows but you have macOS and Linux in step 3?

3. If `uv` is installed but not found, add it to your PATH environment variable:
   * Windows: Add `%USERPROFILE%\.cargo\bin` to your PATH. In PowerShell, run:
     ```powershell
     [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("Path", $env:Path + ";$env:USERPROFILE\.cargo\bin", "User")
     ```
   * macOS or Linux: Add `~/.cargo/bin` to your PATH in `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`.

> 4. Restart Langflow Desktop.

Reviewer: TBH, step 2 and 3 are alternatives, not in sequence. You could use tabs here, like:

```
1. Verify `uv` is installed by running `uv --version` in a terminal.
2. Based on the output, install `uv` or add it to your PATH:

   <Tabs>
   <TabItem for not found, not installed>
   <TabItem for not found but installed>
   </Tabs>

3. Restart Langflow Desktop
```

Also, the outcomes are "Not found" and "Not found but installed". How do you know which it is? Is the first outcome supposed to be "Not _installed_" instead of "not found"?

To resolve this error, do the following:

1. Ensure you have sufficient disk space available (at least 2 GB free).
2. Ensure that you have write permissions in the Langflow Desktop data directory:
   * On Windows: `%LOCALAPPDATA%\com.LangflowDesktop`
   * On macOS: `~/Library/Application Support/com.LangflowDesktop`
3. Close Langflow Desktop.
4. Delete the `venv` or `python_env` folder in the Langflow Desktop data directory.
5. Restart Langflow Desktop.

If the issue persists, ensure Python version >=3.10 is installed and accessible, or reinstall Langflow Desktop from [langflow.org/desktop](https://langflow.org/desktop).

### Failed to sanity check Python execution

Desktop created the Python virtual environment but couldn't verify that Python is working correctly. You may see the error message: `Python Environment Error: Python check failed:` followed by error details, or other `Python Environment Error:` messages.

To resolve this error, see [Failed to create Python virtual environment](#failed-to-create-python-virtual-environment).

### [macOS] Failed to install Langflow OSS: Xcode Command Line Tools are not installed

> Langflow Desktop requires [Xcode Command Line Tools](https://mac.install.guide/commandlinetools/) to install Langflow OSS on macOS. You may see the error message: `Langflow Installation Error: error_xcode` or a detailed message with the title "Xcode Command Line Tools required!".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Langflow Desktop requires [Xcode Command Line Tools](https://mac.install.guide/commandlinetools/) to install Langflow OSS on macOS. You may see the error message: `Langflow Installation Error: error_xcode` or a detailed message with the title `Xcode Command Line Tools required!`.
```

To install XCode Command Line Tools manually, do the following:

1. Open a terminal and run `xcode-select --install`.
2. **The installation may take over 20 minutes**.
To start the installation process, in the popup dialogue, click **Install**.
3. Verify the installation by opening a new terminal and running `xcode-select -p`.

>    The command should return a path like `/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools`.

Reviewer: I don't think we should document this. They can download it from the app store or whatever way they choose. Instead just link to the xcode documentation.

For more information, including alternative installation methods, see the [Protocol buffers installation documentation](https://protobuf.dev/installation/).

### Langflow Installation Error: langflow-install-error

> Langflow Desktop installed Langflow OSS but couldn't verify the installation. You may see error messages like `Langflow Installation Error: langflow-install-error`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Langflow Desktop installed Langflow OSS but couldn't verify the installation. You might see error messages like `Langflow Installation Error: langflow-install-error`.
```

> To resolve this error, do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resolve this error, clear Langflow Desktop's Python virtual environment:
```

1. Close Langflow Desktop.

> 2. Clear Langflow Desktop's Python virtual environment.
>     Navigate to Langflow Desktop's data directory at `%LOCALAPPDATA%\com.LangflowDesktop` on Windows, or `~/Library/Application Support/com.LangflowDesktop` on macOS.
> 3. Delete the `venv` or `python_env` folder.
> 4. Restart Langflow Desktop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Close Langflow Desktop.
2. Navigate to Langflow Desktop's data directory at `%LOCALAPPDATA%\com.LangflowDesktop` on Windows, or `~/Library/Application Support/com.LangflowDesktop` on macOS.
3. Delete the `venv` or `python_env` folder.
4. Restart Langflow Desktop.
```

If the issue persists, ensure you have installed Python version 3.10 or later, and it is accessible by your Langflow installation. If the Python version is correct, try reinstalling Langflow Desktop from [langflow.org/desktop](https://langflow.org/desktop).

### Langflow Health Check Error: Timeout after 80 attempts

> Langflow Desktop installed Langflow OSS but the OSS backend isn't responding to health checks. You may see an error message like `Langflow Health Check Error: Timeout after 80 attempts - Langflow did not become ready`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Langflow Desktop installed Langflow OSS but the OSS backend isn't responding to health checks. You might see an error message like `Langflow Health Check Error: Timeout after 80 attempts - Langflow did not become ready`.
```

> Langflow Desktop installed Langflow OSS but the OSS backend isn't responding to health checks. You may see an error message like `Langflow Health Check Error: Timeout after 80 attempts - Langflow did not become ready`.

Reviewer 2: ### (a) [Info] "Langflow Health Check Error" prefix not exact in source

- 3 variants

```properties
"LFDTA0052E": "Langflow OSS health check failed",
"LFDTA0073E": "Health check timeout (no crash)",
"LFDTA0074E": "Health check: process crashed",
```

To resolve this error, do the following:

1. Check if another process is using Langflow Desktop's default port `7860`.
    * On Windows, run `netstat -ano | findstr :7860`.
    * On macOS or Linux, run `lsof -i :7860`.
2. If another process is using the port, stop that process or [configure Langflow Desktop to use a different port](/environment-variables#set-environment-variables-for-langflow-desktop).

### Failed to install uv or unable to find uv

> The following error messages mean that Langflow Desktop can't locate the `uv` executable on your system, even though it may be installed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following error messages mean that Langflow Desktop can't locate the `uv` executable on your system, even if it is installed:
```

* `Failed to install uv: Unable to find uv executable`
* `Unable to find uv executable for Python virtual environment setup`
* `UV Installation Error: UV installation failed - binary not found after installation`

> * `Python Environment Error: UV binary not found at`

Reviewer 2: ### (b) [Info] Enumerated error message variants are not 100% the same but close enough

- See Source Code: https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow-desktop/blob/9fee6cd353b797f563b089a743fe0101753eac0e/src/frontend/src-tauri/src/i18n/message_id.json#L69
- See Telemetry Documentation: https://ibm.ent.box.com/notes/2050187181137?s=y8914u0q909bqf4jkdeoo4mhk4fe4arr

To resolve this error, do the following:

1. In a terminal verify `uv` is installed by running `uv --version`.
2. Based on the output, install `uv` or add it to your PATH:

   <Tabs>
   <TabItem value="not-installed" label="uv is not installed (command not found)" default>

   Install `uv` using one of the following methods:

   * Windows (PowerShell):
     ```powershell
     powershell -ExecutionPolicy ByPass -c "irm https://astral.sh/uv/install.ps1 | iex"
     ```
   * macOS or Linux:
     ```bash
     curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
     ```
   * Any platform (pip):
     ```bash
     pip install uv
     ```

   </TabItem>
   <TabItem value="not-found" label="uv is installed but not found by Langflow Desktop">

   Add `uv` to your PATH so Langflow Desktop can locate it:

   * Windows: In PowerShell, run:
     ```powershell
     [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("Path", $env:Path + ";$env:USERPROFILE\.cargo\bin", "User")
     ```
   * macOS or Linux: Add `~/.local/bin` to your PATH in `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`.

   </TabItem>
   </Tabs>

3. Restart Langflow Desktop.

### Python Environment Error: Creation failed

> Langflow Desktop failed to create the Python virtual environment required for Langflow OSS. You may see error messages like `Python Environment Error: Creation failed:` followed by error details, `Python Environment Error: error_dns`, or other `Python Environment Error:` messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Langflow Desktop failed to create the Python virtual environment required for Langflow OSS. You might see error messages like `Python Environment Error: Creation failed:` followed by error details, `Python Environment Error: error_dns`, or other `Python Environment Error:` messages.
```

> Langflow Desktop failed to create the Python virtual environment required for Langflow OSS. You may see error messages like `Python Environment Error: Creation failed:` followed by error details, `Python Environment Error: error_dns`, or other `Python Environment Error:` messages.

Reviewer 2: ### (c) [Info] "Creation failed" error message is roughly correct but more exact error message exists

- i.e. `Failed to create Python virtual environment`

To resolve this error, do the following:

1. Ensure you have sufficient disk space available (at least 2 GB free).
2. Ensure that you have write permissions in the Langflow Desktop data directory:
   * On Windows: `%LOCALAPPDATA%\com.LangflowDesktop`
   * On macOS: `~/Library/Application Support/com.LangflowDesktop`
3. Close Langflow Desktop.
4. Delete the `venv` or `python_env` folder in the Langflow Desktop data directory.
5. Restart Langflow Desktop.

> If the issue persists, ensure Python version >=3.10 is installed and accessible, or reinstall Langflow Desktop from [langflow.org/desktop](https://langflow.org/desktop).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the issue persists, ensure Python version 3.10 or later is installed and accessible, or reinstall Langflow Desktop from [langflow.org/desktop](https://langflow.org/desktop).
```

### Python Environment Error: Python check failed

> Langflow Desktop created the Python virtual environment but couldn't verify that Python is working correctly. You may see error messages like `Python Environment Error: Python check failed:` followed by error details, or other `Python Environment Error:` messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Langflow Desktop created the Python virtual environment but couldn't verify that Python is working correctly. You might see error messages like `Python Environment Error: Python check failed:` followed by error details, or other `Python Environment Error:` messages.
```

> Langflow Desktop created the Python virtual environment but couldn't verify that Python is working correctly. You may see error messages like `Python Environment Error: Python check failed:` followed by error details, or other `Python Environment Error:` messages.

Reviewer 2: ### (d) [Info] Can list / enumerate sample error messages rather than generic "Python check failed" error message

- See: https://ibm.ent.box.com/notes/2050187181137?s=y8914u0q909bqf4jkdeoo4mhk4fe4arr

<img width="801" height="525" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6385b61c-daaf-4c46-b819-24db5b5fbbd1" />

To resolve this error, see [Python Environment Error: Creation failed](#python-environment-error-creation-failed).

### Langflow Installation Error: error_xcode

> Langflow Desktop requires [Xcode Command Line Tools](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/resources/) to install Langflow OSS on macOS. You may see error messages like `Langflow Installation Error: error_xcode` or a detailed message with the title `Xcode Command Line Tools required!`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Langflow Desktop requires [Xcode Command Line Tools](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/resources/) to install Langflow OSS on macOS. You might see error messages like `Langflow Installation Error: error_xcode` or a detailed message with the title `Xcode Command Line Tools required!`.
```

> Langflow Desktop requires [Xcode Command Line Tools](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/resources/) to install Langflow OSS on macOS. You may see error messages like `Langflow Installation Error: error_xcode` or a detailed message with the title `Xcode Command Line Tools required!`.

Reviewer 2: ### (e) [Minor] Can use specific error messages rather than "error_xcode"

- The `Xcode Command Line Tools required!` error is outdated / not used any more

```properties
  "LFDTA0041E": "[MacOS] Failed to install Langflow OSS: Xcode Command Line Tools are not installed",
  "LFDTA0042E": "[MacOS] Failed to install Langflow OSS. Missing Xcode Command Line Tools",
```

To resolve this error, do the following:

1. Install [Xcode Command Line Tools](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/resources/).
2. Launch Xcode at least once. Xcode performs additional setup on first startup that other tools such as Git, VS Code, and Langflow Desktop depend on.
3. Restart Langflow Desktop.

### Langflow Installation Error: error_cpp

> Microsoft Windows installations of Langflow Desktop require a C++ compiler that may not be present on your system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Microsoft Windows installations of Langflow Desktop require a C++ compiler that might not be present on your system.
```

> Microsoft Windows installations of Langflow Desktop require a C++ compiler that may not be present on your system.

Reviewer 2: ### (f) [Minor] Can use specific error messages rather than "error_cpp"

```properties
  "LFDTA0039E": "[Windows] Failed to install Langflow OSS. Missing Microsoft Visual C++ Build Tools",
```

If you receive a `Langflow Installation Error: error_cpp` error or a detailed message with the title `C++ Build Tools required!`, follow the on-screen prompt to install Microsoft C++ Build Tools, or install [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/).

### UV Installation Error: uv-manual-install-required

> Langflow Desktop tried multiple methods to automatically install `uv` but all attempts failed. Desktop requires `uv` to manage Python packages and virtual environments. You may see error messages like `UV Installation Error: uv-manual-install-required` or a detailed manual installation message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Langflow Desktop tried multiple methods to automatically install `uv` but all attempts failed. Desktop requires `uv` to manage Python packages and virtual environments. You might see error messages like `UV Installation Error: uv-manual-install-required` or a detailed manual installation message.
```
